# SMUrtNUS


The SMUrtNUS initiative comprises two features: SMUrtNUS ring and SMUrtNUS mobile application.

Past and current data such as their age, past medication condition, etc. will be logged in by the user or with the help of their caregivers. This process will help to build a risk profile of the user. Before issuing the ring for the user to wear at home, there will be a trial phase for the user together with the guidance of the caregiver to normalise the predictive analytics to ensure that there are no glitches in the algorithm.

The SMUrtNUS ring is a wireless wearable connected to the SMUrtNUS Mobile Application. The person-at-risk has to wear the SMUrtNUS ring and download the SMUrtNUS Mobile Application on his/her phone. A caregiver will be tagged to the person-at-risk and they will also have the SMUrtNUS Mobile Application installed on their mobile phones as well. It will not require the person-at-risk to have much digital literacy. The ring is waterproof and fireproof to ensure that it will not spoil or be damaged easily. The ring will then monitor a user’s environmental data, such as their heart rate and temperature etc., and send them to the mobile application at an interval of every 5 minutes. The mobile application will be connected to a cloud server. Together with the user’s environmental data, their past and current data such as their age, past medication conditions, etc. will be processed using the IBM Auto A.I. software and used for predictive modelling for potential accidents, either cardiac arrest, fall or choking. When a potential accident has been predicted for a vulnerable person, their caregiver would be alerted through a notification from the mobile application, which would be followed up with a house call from the caregiver to the person-at-risk. If the person-at-risk does not pick up the call, the caregiver would alert the emergency services who will then deliver assistance to the person-at-risk. On the other hand, if the person-at-risk picks up the call from the caregiver, whether any assistance from emergency services is required would then depend on the condition of the person-at-risk. Ultimately, all potential incidents predicted by the A.I, whether requiring assistance or not from emergency services as the follow-up action, would be logged and recorded, before the data is sent back to the Auto A.I. This allows the A.I to progressively learn and refine the prediction model.

The emergency red button is a manual button which will alarm both the caregiver and hospitals in case the application happens to have technical difficulties, glitches. In the case of other accidents which have occurred falling outside of the modelled potential accidents (cardiac arrest, fall, choking) which would not be analysed and processed by the application, users will press the emergency red button to send emergency signals to the caregiver and hospitals.

If the phone battery is low, it will prompt the user to charge via the ring flashing red light and intermittent vibration. If the phone is not put to charge, the caretaker will get a notification message to ask the user to charge his phone.

  

Overall, the data consolidated from the mobile application will generate a risk profile for each user, which will then link the risk profiles to the gps function in smartphones to create a map of Singapore showcasing risk density areas. More caregivers will be efficiently allocated to the densely risk populated areas in Singapore.
